So on the subnet 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 128 to slash 26.
We've been told to configure the Rada with the lost IP address in the subnet.
Now the next subnet is one ninety two.
So the broadcast address for the subnet will be 191 which means that this writer can be configured with
one ninety.
Have a look at the previous videos in this series.
If you're not sure how I worked that out so IP address 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 1 only 2 is the next subnet one
only 1 is the broadcast one ninety is the lost IP address in the subnet subnet mask is that and we know
that from our previous calculations the switch needs to use the second IP address in the subnet the
right is configured with one 90 so the switch I'll change the name to switch to will simply use IP address
1 point 2 1 6 8 1 1 89 so 1 less than the router
shutter the interface so ping 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 1 89.
That's our local IP address.
Can we ping the router.
Yes we can.
I'll also configure a default gateway on the switch pointing to the router switch as configured so the
switch once again is using one eighty nine.
The DNS server should use 188
one less than the switch so static IP address of the DHB server is 1 8 2 1 6 8 1 88 public mask is 255
255 192 default gateway is the router 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 1 90 again that's the IP address of the router DNS
server will be Google.
So on the server can we ping the router type that right.
Yes we can.
Can we ping the switch.
Can we.
Paying the DNS server.
Not at the moment because we need to configure the serial interface of the router.
But now let's configure the DHB server so DCP will enable the DHB service default gateway is going to
be one ninety two so 1 so 1 8 2 1 6 8 1 1 Ninety DNS server is Google IP addresses that will allocate
all 1 9 2 1 6 8 1.
Now you need to be careful.
The first host is one more then the subnet so it's 1 twenty.
Maximum number of hosts.
I'll allocate is 50 and I'll save that configuration.
You could allocate more IP addresses in your pool or less if you wanted to so.
So for instance only allocate 10 just depends how many IP addresses in your subnet you want to have
for static IP addresses.
How many IP addresses you want for dynamic IP addresses so on the P.C. IP config IP address has been
allocated.
Ping 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 1 90.
That's the Rada.
That's the switch that's the DNS server.
What about PCI 5.
Just do one more here.
IP config IP address has been allocated.
So can we ping the Rada.
Yes we can.
What about switch.
What about DNS server.
Yes we can.
We won't be able to ping 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 to 1.
P.S. And the other subnet because we still need to configure this serial link so let's configure the
serial link the IP address of this rather on the serial interface is gonna be one more than the subnet
so show IP interface brief.
This serial interface needs to be configured with IP address 1 8 2 1 6 8 1 subnet is 1 only 2.
So first ip address will be 1 93 with that subnet mosque.
So can we ping 1 or 2 1 6 8 1 93.
It won't work at this point because we need to configure the other side so on this rather show IP interface
brief we still need to configure the search interface it's currently down so no shut to that IP address
will be 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 and this is a little bit more difficult to work out the broadcast for the subnet.
Again you just populate the host portion with binary ones and what you'll notice is it's full of ones.
So that would equal 255 but one less than the broadcast is 254.
So 254 subnet mask is that no shut to the interface again to show IP interface brief according to this
it's still down.
Let's make sure that I've configured it right.
Show IP interface brief
may have connected the wrong serial interface in this network and that looks like what I've done wrong
serial interface.
So what I'll do is delete that serial interface.
I'll fix it in your lab so you don't have that problem.
So that serial should be connected to that serial so show IP interface brief this interface is up up
so can we ping 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 2 5 4.
Yes we can.
So write too can ping the Internet router so hopefully these pieces can now paying the Internet which
they can notice they can ping Cisco dot com as an example and they can paying Facebook a dot com.
So going to the web browser on P.S. 3 can this P.C. get to Cisco dot com.
Yes it can.
Can it get to Facebook dot com.
What about P.C. 5 web browser on P.C. 5.
Can we get to Cisco dot com.
Yes We Can.
Can we get to Facebook dot com.
Yes we can.
We can access these servers on the Internet.
We've had to do quite a lot here as a lost test.
Can the pieces in the one subnet ping pieces in the other subnet so can we ping one on 2 1 6 8 wandered
1.
Yes we can.
What about 1 to 2.
And if we trace to that we are essentially sending traffic to rather 2 event invented the Internet rather
than to write a one and then to the P.C. in the other subnet.
Okay so this was quite a complex lab we had to do a lot of things here but I'm hoping it's helped you
understand subediting and way you use updating and how to use submitting in a practical lab.